# GIS4653
California County Demographics Data

Title: Counties In California That Voted Republican
Abstract: California is the state everyone knows as “the blue state”.  For years, California has been leading the way for more progressive views across the nation.  It would be both naive and insensible to assume that everyone in California is a democrat, however.  This project’s goal is fivefold.  Our first, and most simple, goal is to figure out is which counties voted Republican in the presidential elections of 2008, 2012, or 2016.  The second goal, is to figure out what the split between genders was when it comes to voting Republican - did more males than females vote for Republic asans? Or vice versa?  To add to this, our third goal deals with socioeconomic classes - did wealthier populations tend to vote Republican more often than less wealthy populations?  Our fourth goal is to figure out which ethnicities voted Republican the most often. Finally, our fifth goal is to figure out voter turnout in each election, comparing voter registration versus how many actually voted.
Keywords: Elections, California, Counties, Sex, Age, Socioeconomic Class, Ethnicity.
Data Requirements: For this project, we will need Census data and Voter data.  This Census data will be able to be retrieved from census.gov. The voter data will be obtained from California Secretary of State website. The data we will be using will be solely vector data, and probably only polygons.
Process Description: A tabular join can be used to combine the census tract border data to the actual census data. Census data is also collected and presented in block groups and not counties. Therefore in order to create county level data, we need to combine these blocks (thankfully blocks don’t cross county lines). We can use the dissolve tool to combine data by county and use the Statistics Fields options to calculate total population, total number of each ethnicity, and total number of each sex living in each county. In this step we will also calculate average median income of the whole county. A tabular join can be used to combine the county-level voting data to the census data at this point since the county names now carry over. To determine if a county went Democrat or Republican, we can loop through each county and evaluate if more people voted for the Democratic candidate or the Republican candidate. Another field will be added to the table which will state whether each county had voted Democrat or Republican. To add some user input to this project, we can use a loop so that the user can put the names of counties they want to look at into the program to get census and voter statistics based on those counties, and they can also select election year. Advantages to implementing the analysis in Python is that California is a large state and it’s a lot easier to just script the geoprocesses that we need to use. It also is easier to ask for user input using Python and so geoprocesses can be run multiple times.
